README.md, before:

# Assignment: ASSIGNMENT NAME

This repository is compatible with [Replit](https://replit.com/).

[//]: # (TODO: provide a short assignment overview)
Assigment overview goes here... TBD

## Getting started

### Creating a new repository from template

Press the `Use this template` green button at the top.

![](./.lesson/assets/repo-from-template.png)

This will lead you to the repository creation page.
Provide a valid meaningful repo name and add  its description.

There is no need to clone branches except `master`. Default branch is always at
the most stable version.

### Protect master branch

It's important not to work within the default branch. So, ensure noone can
commit directly into `master`. In **Settings** navigate to **Branches** under
the **Code and automation** section. Press `Add branch protection rule` button.

![](.lesson/assets/branch-protection-1.png)

Provide branch name pattern and check following options:

- **Require a pull request before merging**
- **Require status checks to pass before merging**
  - **Require branches to be up date before merging**
- **Do not allow bypassing the above settings**

![](.lesson/assets/branch-protection-2.png)
![](.lesson/assets/branch-protection-3.png)
![](.lesson/assets/branch-protection-4.png)

This will protect the default branch from committing directly into it.
You may apply other protection rules, in case of need.

## Getting started

1. Create a new repository using the template
2. Clone it to your local machine
3. Create a new topic branch (!!!DO NOT WORK IN MASTER DIRECTLY!!!)
4. Prepare the assignment instruction
5. Provide the solution in a separated document
6. Prepare a code boilerplate
7. Add unit tests (use `unittest` framework only)
8. Open a PR into master to merge assignment branch

### Make your boilerplate file invisible for Git

When a boilerplate code is ready, you may want to implement the actual logic
for the assignment. To make changes inside a file invisible for Git use:

```shell
git update-index --assume-unchanged <file>
```

To switch it back:

```shell
git update-index --no-assume-unchanged <file>
```

### Testing

Assignment follows TDD approach. This means all the tests should fail.
Decorate your test cases with `unittest.expectedFailure`.

[//]: # (TODO: assignment documents)


## Publication checklist

- [ ] Provide assignment name (README and pyproject files).
- [ ] Provide short assignment description (README and pyproject files).
- [ ] Provide assignment instructions, you "assets" directory for static files.
- [ ] Implement test cases within "tests" directory, use `unittest` framework.

Commit message:

Add repo's materials description section

README.md, after:

# Assignment: ASSIGNMENT NAME

This repository is compatible with [Replit](https://replit.com/).

[//]: # (TODO: provide a short assignment overview)
Assigment overview goes here... TBD

## Getting started

### Creating a new repository from template

Press the `Use this template` green button at the top.

![](./.lesson/assets/repo-from-template.png)

This will lead you to the repository creation page.
Provide a valid meaningful repo name and add  its description.

There is no need to clone branches except `master`. Default branch is always at
the most stable version.

### Protect master branch

It's important not to work within the default branch. So, ensure noone can
commit directly into `master`. In **Settings** navigate to **Branches** under
the **Code and automation** section. Press `Add branch protection rule` button.

![](.lesson/assets/branch-protection-1.png)

Provide branch name pattern and check following options:

- **Require a pull request before merging**
- **Require status checks to pass before merging**
  - **Require branches to be up date before merging**
- **Do not allow bypassing the above settings**

![](.lesson/assets/branch-protection-2.png)
![](.lesson/assets/branch-protection-3.png)
![](.lesson/assets/branch-protection-4.png)

This will protect the default branch from committing directly into it.
You may apply other protection rules, in case of need.

## Materials within this repo

There are few major files here.

- `main.py` is the main code base file. It will be used to complete
  the assignment by students.
- `tests` directory is the home of **all** tests provided for the assignment.
- `.lesson` directory is the documentation source
  - `.lesson/instructions.md` is the assignment instructions file visible for
    all.
  - `.lesson/lessonplan.md` is the private file, available only for
    the assignment owners and/or admins.

Other documents may be included into `.lesson` directory.
Only `instructions.md` will be visible for the students.

## Getting started

1. Create a new repository using the template
2. Clone it to your local machine
3. Create a new topic branch (!!!DO NOT WORK IN MASTER DIRECTLY!!!)
4. Prepare the assignment instruction
5. Provide the solution in a separated document
6. Prepare a code boilerplate
7. Add unit tests (use `unittest` framework only)
8. Open a PR into master to merge assignment branch

### Make your boilerplate file invisible for Git

When a boilerplate code is ready, you may want to implement the actual logic
for the assignment. To make changes inside a file invisible for Git use:

```shell
git update-index --assume-unchanged <file>
```

To switch it back:

```shell
git update-index --no-assume-unchanged <file>
```

### Testing

Assignment follows TDD approach. This means all the tests should fail.
Decorate your test cases with `unittest.expectedFailure`.

[//]: # (TODO: assignment documents)


## Publication checklist

- [ ] Provide assignment name (README and pyproject files).
- [ ] Provide short assignment description (README and pyproject files).
- [ ] Provide assignment instructions, you "assets" directory for static files.
- [ ] Implement test cases within "tests" directory, use `unittest` framework.
